what's the reaction been like on social
media so far it has been a chaotic 24 to
48 hours so much news around meta and
Tik Tok seems like people are generally
pretty happy that they're getting back
to Tik Tok but it's definitely been a
chaotic news cycle I don't think there
has ever been a time in the history of
Instagram or probably even in the
history of social media with more
changes than this past weekend between
Friday January 17th and Monday January
20th there were so many any changes that
were massive complete overhauls to both
Instagram and Tik Tok and so in today's
episode I'm going to update you on every
single Instagram change that has taken
place over the last few days and weeks
and what it means for you as a business
owner or a content creator who's trying
to grow their brand or following on
Instagram now of course A lot of these
changes happened at the same time that
Tik Tok was shut down for about 12 hours
and then brought back online which was
probably the most dominant news story of
the news cycle the most important thing
that people were talking about but
that's why so many of these other
Instagram changes were missed yet these
Instagram changes are very big and a lot
of them are going to drastically change
the way we use the app on the day-to-day
basis and so I'm about to fill you in on
everything that you might have missed
that has either already changed in the
last few weeks on Instagram or that they
say is going to change within the next
few weeks specifically there are seven
app updates that I'm going to explain to
you today and kind of a bonus one that
we can start with right now the bonus
one was actually something that took
place and was announced at the beginning
of December 2024 but a lot of people are
still gaining access to it and a lot of
people miss the announcement we did do
an entire build your tribe episode about
this feature so I highly recommend going
back and watching that if you haven't
already but of course I'm speaking about
none other than trial reels basically
trial reels are a new option that you
can select before posting your reel and
when you post a trial reel your video
will only be shown to nonf followers so
essentially Instagram designed this as a
way for you to test and see how the Reel
is going to perform by showing it to a
group of people who doesn't already
follow you now Pro tip that I've already
been sharing with our insta clubhub
students is to take all of your best
reels from the past anything that you
have posted in the last one to two years
that has either done really well or that
has gained you a lot of followers and
post it again as a trial reel the cool
thing is because it's being shown to
people who do not follow you they likely
have never seen this reel in the first
place but because it did well for you
last time it gained you a lot of
followers or maybe it even went viral
it's likely going to perform well for
you again now of course I say likely
there are no guarantees but some of our
students have been gaining literally
tens of thousands of followers with
doing little to no extra work by just
reposting their best reels as trial
reels so again if you want to get more
details on that feature go back and
check out the episode that we put out in
mid December about this new feature kind
of explaining how to find it how to use
it and all of that but that's just the
tip of the iceberg because let's get
into these seven changes that have been
announced in the last 1 to two weeks
that have either already taken place on
Instagram or that will be changing very
very soon the first one was definitely
headline news Mark Zuckerberg himself
put out a post basically saying that
Instagram is changing the way they do
factchecking and they're changing their
Community guidelines to summarize
basically they are simplifying the
community guidelines they are making
less strict guidelines so you're going
to be able to post about different
things that in the past were deemed
political speaking of political in the
past on Instagram they have not
recommended political content what that
means is if you post about something
that's political you can still be seen
by your followers theoretically but if
you post about something that is deemed
political that post itself cannot be
recommended to non-followers it won't be
shown to someone who isn't already
following you they could find it but it
won't just be recommended to them now of
course you're probably already asking
yourself how does Instagram or meta know
what is political and what isn't how do
they draw the line some people believe
that literally everything is political
and so how does meta decide and who
decides at meta well that's kind of the
issue that they're addressing right now
and that's why that they are removing
this restriction so now political
content is something that can be
recommendable it can be discovered by
non-followers in the feed they're also
doing away with their fact Checkers
their internal reports at least at least
according to them showed that their fact
Checkers were biased and that they were
factchecking more things relating to one
end of the political spectrum and
factchecking less things relating to the
opposite end of the political spectrum
and so rather than having independent
fact Checkers which is what they've had
for the last four years they're going to
be replacing that with a feature that
was popularized on Twitter SLX called
Community notes where essentially if
there is something that is deemed false
deemed inaccurate misinformation the
Community can self-report that to
Instagram and then the approval process
isn't exactly clear but basically if
that gets enough reports or if enough
people deem that the community notes are
accurate and that they are actually
correcting the misinformation in the
post then the community notes will be
visible below the post it's kind of like
putting factchecking in the hands of
everyone rather than a select few
private people in a thirdparty group now
here at build your tribe it is our job
to teach you how to grow on social media
we try our best to not share our own
political views and beliefs of course
you are welcome to form your own
interpretations some people are saying
that with the removal of fact Checkers
it is a win for Free Speech but some
people believe that the removal of fact
Checkers is going to lead to the
proliferation of misinformation and
inaccurate statements and so they don't
see it as a win for the First Amendment
and for freedom of speech but of course
you're welcome to form your own opinions
on this we're just here to help you
navigate your way through it and
continue to grow on social media which
by the way if you haven't already we
just passed 36,000 subscribers which is
so flipping cool and I'm so excited and
really so proud and thankful about the
growth of our podcast we have a goal of
reaching 100,000 subscribers on YouTube
in 2025 so if you're watching this and
if you want more tips advice strategies
and updates on how to grow on social
media just hit that subscribe button
because the YouTube algorithm isn't
always the best at showing you the
content that you want to see but when
you hit that subscribe button it's your
direct way of telling YouTube that you
want to see our future episodes but
again that was just number one so let's
get into number two the second big
announcement and this is one that a lot
of people missed is what we're calling
the friends feed now you might remember
back in the day a few years ago on
Instagram there was what was called the
activity tab basically when you looked
at your own notifications where it
showed you all of your likes comments
Etc there was an additional tab that
showed you everything that your friends
were doing so you got to see like what
posts your friends had recently liked
what their recent comments were
and it was kind of an invasion of
privacy and so Instagram removed that a
few years ago which I think was for the
best but now they've added back
something that's somewhat similar it's
not so precise so that it's showing you
every single post that each of your
individual friends has liked and
commented on and followed but instead
it's going to be just a feed with reals
that your friends have liked so to find
this feed basically just go to your
reals Tab and then up in the upper right
hand corner you will see three little
profile pictures of three people you
follow theoretically these aren't just
going to be three random people you
follow they're going to be three people
whom you follow and interact with often
basically three people who Instagram
thinks you have a strong relationship or
a strong connection too if you tap on
those three profile pictures you'll be
taken to again what I'm calling the
follower feed or the friends feed might
be a good term for it and it's just
going to show you reals that your
friends your mutuals who you've
interacted with reals that they have
engaged with reals that they have liked
so it's going to be a way to kind of tap
into your community and see what your
friends are engaging and interacting
with on Instagram now this is something
that isn't necessarily going to directly
impact the way us business owners and
content creators use Instagram it's more
of a way for the average person the
average consumer to get more connected
with the people they're already
connected with for example when I tap on
that tab I'm going to see the reals that
he my wife is liking and so I'm able to
kind of feel more connected to her in a
sense because we're watching similar
content I do think that this is going to
lead to long-term more growth and
potentially more followers and more
exposure for us as content creators and
business owners because it's showing our
reals to people who are like the people
who already follow us it's basically
finding an adjacent audience or an
audience who is similar to our own at
least friends with the people who are in
our own audience and letting them watch
our reals and consume our content so I
don't think it's going to be a huge
difference maker I don't think it's
going to result in like hundreds of
thousands of new followers overnight but
I do think it is going to be a
beneficial feature for all of us in
reaching new people now I do want to say
there's nothing special that you have to
do uh to have your reals show up on this
page there's no special criteria you
have to reach we're not quite sure yet
exactly what informs the friends
algorithm for example if Tay my wife uh
likes 50 reels in a day how does it
determine the order like how does it
decide which of the 50 to show me and in
which order uh that's not quite clear
yet but again I just want to say that
this is hopefully something that's going
to be beneficial for us content creators
and business owners all right next up
number three on our list one of the
biggest changes coming to Instagram is
thre minute reels announced by
Instagram's CEO himself we are now going
to be allowed to post reels that are
double the length that we were
previously allowed in the past you have
only been able to post reels that were
up to 90 seconds long so a minute and a
half and now we're going to be able to
post thre minute reels now what I'm
about to explain is going to be a little
bit confusing and I know it's confusing
it's very confusing when Instagram first
made this announcement so stick with me
for a second and hopefully I'm going to
be able to demystify this whole thing
because you might be thinking as many
people have commented on my post
recently well Brock we've already been
able to post reals that are longer than
3 minutes yes you have but there's a
distinction and let me explain so about
a year ago Instagram made a change in
terminology so that now any video that
you post on Instagram with the exception
of stories is called a real so if you
post a video to your profile grid even
if it's not like technically a real like
it's not full screen it's like a cropped
in little horizontal video it's
considered a real and in the past into
this day you're able to post videos that
are up to 10 minutes long in some cases
some accounts can go as long as 10
minutes but those while they're called
reals they're not treated as the reals
the the feature that was announced in
2020 that feature reals that we're used
to so they're called reals but they're
not treated like reels the only things
that have been treated like reals are
actual reels reels that are 90 seconds
or less and that are posted in the
fullcreen vertical format and what do I
mean by that what do I mean by treated
like a reel what I specifically am
referring to is receiving the benefits
that reals receive and those benefits
are increased reach to non-followers on
average on Instagram the kind of post
that receives the most reach aka the
most views to nonf followers is reals so
while you could post a video in the past
that was 5 minutes long and it would
technically be called a real it was not
eligible for that expanded reach it was
not eligible to reach those new people
now you're able to post videos AKA reals
that are up to 3 minutes long and still
receive that reach to non-followers
still receive that reach and
recommendation to people who do not
already follow you of course this likely
begs the question so what should we do
should we start posting three minute
reels how long should our reels be well
let me teach you what we teach in the
insta clubhub which is called the mini
skirt rule the mini skirt rule is as
follows your content should be long
enough to cover the important bits but
short enough to hold attention hopefully
you never forget that term mini skirt
rule but essentially what I'm saying is
is that there is no magic length for
your reels there's also no magic length
for captions there's no magic length for
number of slides in a carousel it
doesn't matter how long it is what
matters is can you hold people's
attention and so the mini scrw rule is
hopefully a good way to keep in mind
that hey if you need 17 seconds to
communicate an idea thoroughly then use
17 seconds but don't force yourself to
make it a minute long and just keep
repeating yourself and saying the same
sentence over and over again and wasting
time because that's going to bore people
you're going to lose their attention and
they're going to stop watching so as
long as it needs to be but no longer is
another way to think about it so should
you start posting three minute reels I
mean sure you could experiment with it
but chances are if you struggle to get
people to watch a 10-second or a
30second reel it's going to be much
tougher to get people to watch a full 3
minute minute real ultimately just keep
the miniskirt rule in mind and you'll be
fine all right number four on our list
another massive change to at least the
way Instagram visually looks is a change
to our profile grid since the dawn of
Instagram when you look at someone's
profile everything in the grid is a
square so it doesn't matter if the post
itself is a vertical reel a horizontal
landscape Sunset picture it doesn't
matter what the size of the post is when
we look at the grid everything is cut
into equal 1 by one squares well now
Instagram is changing to have a
rectangular grid so we're going to see
three rectangles that are taller than
they are wide and those are going to
fill up the grid rather than squares if
you're familiar with Tik Tok and what
the Tik Tok profile Pages look like it
looks very similar to that now what does
this mean for us business owners and
content creators first of all it means
anything that you have posted in the
past now might look a little strange on
the feed if you are someone who has
spent a lot of time curating an
aesthetically pleasing feed that fits
together geographically and looks really
visually appealing and pretty take a
look at your feed because it might look
different now I know that there are some
celebrities specifically some musicians
who uh do these really intricate
designed curated feeds in order to
announce new songs and new albums and it
was quite funny after this announcement
was made uh to see the way their profile
grids suddenly looked so different and
so wonky and so not put together now now
Instagram has created an easy way for us
to go back and edit those past covers in
order to make them look right and look
visually appealing on the grid all you
have to do is go to the Post in which
you want to change its cover tap the
three dots in the upper right hand
corner and then you'll be able to edit
the cover itself however I don't think
this is necessary I mean sure you know
if if you're a famous musician and your
whole grid looks like a mismatched
puzzle piece you could do that if you're
someone who really cares about the
Aesthetics of your grid you could at
least go back through Maybe the most
recent six or nine posts but I wouldn't
scroll all the way back to posts from 3
years ago and worry about fixing them
and updating them because a most people
like 95% of people are never going to
scroll back that far and the 5% who are
are likely not going to care they're not
going to think it's that big of a deal
because soon we'll all come to an
understanding that hey Instagram made
this big change and so they can't expect
us to go back and change the covers on
hundreds and hundreds of posts now this
change in cover size has caused a lot of
people to ask well do my posts now need
to be a different size no not
necessarily your post can still be
whatever size you want them to be your
post can still be full screen reels you
can still post a 5x4 photo you can still
post uh a carousel that's in landscape
and it's wide it doesn't really matter
how big the post is because no matter
how big it is the cover on your grid
will be a 4x3 ratio four being the
height and three being the width so if
you are someone who custom makes your
covers and you do design them that might
be something to consider keeping in mind
when you are reformatting and designning
covers in the future but generally
speaking this isn't going to affect that
many of us on the dayto day just make
sure that you're aware that instead of
fitting in a tight square box like you
used to have to now you have a little
bit more space vertically and Below you
while the people who have spent a lot of
time curating and aesthetically pleasing
feed are definitely unhappy about this
change the general feedback and sensus
seems to be that it looks cleaner it
looks um a little bit less busy and
distracting because when you had squares
you could obviously fit more squares on
the screen at one time but now that
they're a little bit taller being
vertical rectangles um it puts less
posts on the screen at one time thus
creating a little bit more of a calming
sense and not making the profiles feel
so busy and chaotic all right so
everything I've talked about so far has
already taken place it's a change that
has already been implemented that
doesn't mean that 100% of accounts have
access to these changes but it does mean
that 100% of accounts should have access
it just takes time to reach all two
billion Instagram users we're all on
different devices we're all in different
countries with different regulations
we're all on different softwares it
takes a long time for Instagram to have
these updates reach everyone I know for
myself personally I have some of these
updates like I have three minute reels I
have the the friends following feed and
I have the removal of fact Checkers but
I don't have the rectangular grid yet
for myself but a lot of people who can
look at my profile see it on their end
so um it's again just a change that's
going to take place over time but
everything I've mentioned so far is a
change that has already been implemented
if you do not have access to any of
these changes don't worry it's not like
it's going to limit your growth or
anything like that I would just you know
keep updating your app regularly keep
refreshing make sure that you're on the
latest software and just be patient for
these updates to reach you now the three
remaining changes are official they have
been posted about by Instagram and
confirmed that they are coming out in
the near future but for two of the three
we don't have exact dates we know that
it's coming likely within the next one
to 2 months but sometimes there are
delays in the software being rolled out
so we'll see when these actually take
effect but the final three changes that
I wanted to talk to you about today are
number one highlights are moving to
their own tab on the profile grid so
when you look at your profile grid right
now or at least before these changes
have taken place you see your bio and
then right below your bio you see those
little circles those are called your
highlights those are essentially a
collection a curated collection a
compilation if you will of stories that
you have previously posted you get to
select what stories go on what
highlights how many highlights you want
to create etc etc you can include
stories going all the way back to 2019
even 2018 if you want to but Instagram
has found that over time people have
looked at and used highlights less and
less and less we've been reporting here
at build your tribe that highlights just
aren't that important and so they're not
really something that you should focus
very heavily on because usually only
about 1 to 2% of new followers will even
look at your highlights so it's never
been something that's important and
that's why Instagram is moving their
location basically Instagram deemed that
having such a prominent focal point at
the top of your profile right below your
bio and above all of your feed content
wasn't the best use of space so they're
moving it to its own tab on your profile
grid so if you look at your profile you
can see the leftmost tab shows you every
post that you have made to the feed
whether it's a photo Carousel or a reel
the second tab shows you all of the
reals that you have posted and then if
you have a third tab it is likely
anything that you have been tagged in
but not everyone has access to that
depending on uh whether or not you
choose to show your tagged posts
essentially now there's going to be a
fourth tab which I believe is going to
go in between the reals Tab and the
tagged Tab and this is going to be a tab
specifically for your highlights it's
not exactly clear yet exactly how it's
going to look how it's going to function
but it's just moving locations and
that's really all you need to know for
now now I know a few times today I've
brought up the insta clubhub and you
might be wondering what is that the
insta clubhub is the Instagram resource
that my mom and myself co-created and
co-run where we give you everything that
you need for Instagram we tell you
exactly what you need to know in the
most concise and helpful way possible
every week so that if you only have like
5 minutes to grow on Instagram boom we
give that to you and you're good to go
we also give you a personalized content
calendar every month we have a really
massive team who is able to help us with
these and so every single member of our
club gets a customized content calendar
telling you exactly what to post with
scripts and hooks and hashtags every day
of the month for all 30 days of the
month we also offer a free profile
review to any annual members so I just
wanted to let you know a little bit more
about that I will say last year our
average engaged insta clubhub member
grew by about 15 ,900 followers and so
the results really speak for themselves
if you want to check that out we'll put
the link down in the show notes below we
do offer a $7 2E trial so if you want to
jump in the trial and just see what the
club is like for the next two weeks that
would be a great way to test the waters
and to see if the insta clubhub is
really all it's cracked up to be but
okay back into the list the sixth big
new change coming to Instagram in this
one I think is going to be massive I
think this is going to drastically
impact the way that we think about our
feed and the things we're posting and
the change is we are now going to be
able to customize and reorder our
profile grid now this change is kind of
crazy because just a few days ago
Instagram CEO answered a question on his
stories about this someone said are we
ever going to be able to reorder our
profile grid and put the posts in the
order we want them and he was like yeah
you know that's a good idea but there's
a lot of challenges like how would we do
that what happens when there's a new
post does it go to the top do you get to
to pre-select like where it goes in how
does all this work how do we tell people
uh you know where the recent posts are
versus what the order you want them to
appear is um and so those questions are
still not answered but the answer we do
have is that coming soon you will be
able to reorder drag around your posts
on your profile grid and make them look
however you want this is a firstof its-
kind feature on social media and I'm
really interested to see the way it
impacts our use of Instagram and the
best practice is around what to put
where on your profile Grid it's going to
be very very interesting of course
YouTube has the ability to customize
your YouTube channel page you can put
like different playlists and organize
what playlists show up in what order um
but on any other social media Tik Tock
Twitter anything like that you haven't
been able to customize how your posts
show up like yes there are pinned posts
on Instagram that's been around for a
while and there are pinned posts on Tik
Tok um but after that after the three
pinned posts everything else is just in
Reverse chronological order and so it'll
be very interesting to see how this is
implemented and as soon as it is rolled
out and as soon as we do have best
practices to report of course we will
share them with you here at build your
tribe and I should say first and
foremost we will share them with our
insta clubhub members in the club so
that was second to last last but not
least and I do have kind of like a rumor
that I want to tell you after this
seventh one so stick around for that as
well the seventh new update coming to
Instagram is actually not coming to
Instagram itself it's coming from
Instagram and it's a brand new app it's
basically Instagram's way of competing
with cap cut for those of you who don't
know or maybe a lot of you found out
when Tik Tok was banned is that capcut
is owned by the same company that owns
Tik Tok so a lot of people who were like
I don't care if Tik Tok is banned they
suddenly cared because cap cut was
banned alongside of it so as opportunist
as it may seem the day capcut was banned
Instagram announced their new editing
app called edits it is going to be
launched in March of 2025 so it's about
a month or two away from being rolled
out but essentially they're deeming it
as an alternative to cap cut not
necessarily a direct competitor because
they say it's not going to have some of
the features that cap cut has like
templates which is one of the reasons
that people really love cap cut instead
it's going to be an editing app that is
very integrated with Instagram it's
going to have trending audios from
Instagram it's going to have an analytic
system where it can tell you why certain
reels performed well or didn't perform
well and kind of give you feedback which
I think is going to be fascinating it's
also going to have a editor an editing
platform an editing interface that very
much aligns with what we expect of
Instagram re so it's really going to be
um a buddy buddy app for Instagram and I
highly doubt that reals edited in the
edits app are necessarily going to
perform better than reals edited
anywhere else but I could be wrong about
that and that could change when edits
does roll out I'm going to check on it
I'm going going to download it I have
already pre-ordered it from the App
Store and I recommend that you do the
same just to try it out but if nothing
else I want you to be aware that this
app is coming now I mentioned a rumor
this is a rumor but I also can confirm
that it is at least in testing so it's
not just a completely fabricated rumor
or some story I can confirm that this is
something that Instagram is working on
whether or not it becomes official has
yet to be seen but there's rumored to be
a complete redesign of the Instagram app
in has found that the number one most
used area of Instagram is wait for it
take a guess in your mind what area of
Instagram is used the most it's not
stories it's not reals it's not the feed
the most used area of Instagram is the
DMS and so Instagram wants to make the
DMS more of a focal point so the rumor
is that DMS the button to access your
DMs is being moved from where it
currently is in the upper right down to
the center middle which is currently
where the plus sign aka the post button
is also a part of this test is that the
reals Tab and the explore tab are
flip-flopping places so that now the
second button going from left to right
is going to be the reals tab instead of
the explore Tab and the fourth button is
going to be the explore tab instead of
the reals tab now is this necessarily
going to impact your growth your sales
your business no but it's likely going
to be frustrating I understand that
Instagram wants to make DMS more of a
focal point but they're kind of
destroying our muscle memory and this is
just my personal opinion at this point
if our muscle memory is the DMS are in
the upper right and that's where we go
to tap and enter our DMS moving them to
the bottom center is going to have
somewhat of a learning curve for it so
it might even be that for the first few
days or weeks after this change is
rolled out if it is rolled out people
are going to struggle to find their DMS
they're going to struggle to find the
reals Tab and the Explorer tab because
everything is just not intuitive and so
that's just something that I want you to
be aware of moving forward so if you
ever do open your Instagram app and the
DMS have moved and all these other
buttons have flipped and changed places
just know that this is something
Instagram is testing and as soon as we
know it's official we will let our insta
clubbers know we will let you know here
at buildor tribe and if nothing else
I'll see you next week and as always
happy networking